this episode of SI tal Iran is brought
to you by the lifetime torchlight 5k
Twin Cities in Motion the Kerry
Tollefson training camp and m.tech
results
hi I'm Olympian Carrie Tollefson and
today we're going to share with you part
two of our four-part marathon training
guide so let's get after it in part one
of our marathon training guide we
outline the base phase of training now
we jump into the power phase which is
typically weeks 5 through 8 we not only
are going to be increasing your long run
and getting that up over 15 miles a run
we're also going to be increasing some
of the other runs during the week
there's three key workouts during the
week we might have one that is a temple
run which is a longer sustained run
where we might be running those at half
marathon pace to your marathon goal pace
for a distance of anywhere from four to
eight maybe even up to 10 miles
depending upon the level of the runner
and then we have our interval workouts
which may be hill repeats or maybe on a
track where you doing for hundreds eight
hundreds or 1600s repeats at various
paces and then our long run which we've
been building longer and longer those we
still run at a slower pace generally at
about eighty to eighty-five percent of
our marathon goal pace and those runs
now and the power phase are you know in
the fifteen plus mile range so we've
been continuing to build that up and as
we go through the power phase when we
get towards the end of that we're going
to be up in that 20 possibly even for an
advanced runner in the 22 to 23 mile
range we've talked about hill workouts
and interval training on previous see
tally run episodes but one of my
favorite workouts is mile repeats in
this workout you run a mile at 5k pace
rs-422 four minutes and repeat two to
three times so we're trying to do is
we're trying to teach the body to
recover quickly so the faster our body
recovers the easier it's going to be for
us to run up a hill or reach a difficult
point in the race I love this face I
mean this is my favorite phase and I'm
not even a marathoner but when I'm in my
training mode power fades a spun you
actually you know get to play around a
little bit with your with your fitness
and I know some people are a little bit
scared of that you know they get scared
I've actually having to go and push
themselves and hurt a little bit but
this is really an important faith isn't
it well what I finds people that are a
little bit nervous about doing it we
take them to the track workout for the
first time we're doing for hundreds or
eight hundreds on a track
and it's like they're just I don't know
if I can do this and it's like and it
hurts the first time they do it because
their lungs are burning and all this
kind of stuff and we get through the
workout and we're on the cooldown we're
running back to the club or what have
you and you know the comments that I
typically here is I just I feel tired
but I feel really good stay tuned to see
tally run for part three of our marathon
guide and for more training advice check
out lifetime run club com thanks for
joining me for part two of our marathon
training guide get after it I haven't
mentioned that I'm thinking about 26.2
miles it's a long ways I'd rather on the
1500 John but you know I got it I gotta
do it sunday you know what I think
running the 1500 is harder than running
26.2 miles cuz my lungs hurt so bad
after running the TC 1 mile oh my god I
love you right now because so many
people say oh you run a mile try running
26.2 but I say when you can run for four
minutes versus four hours you mean maybe
a little bit more fun run four minutes
but we were well each you know one of a
kind and whatever it takes I don't know
what I'm saying right now so you could
cut off of that